# Documentation
## Generated by Yeoman
This site's Gulpfile was created with [Yeoman](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman) and its [Webapp generator](https://github.com/yeoman/generator-webapp#readme). Building with a tool like Yeoman allowed me to start from a familiar starting ground, and allows powerful future extendability.
## Build
To get started with this proejct, first pull it down and run `npm install` to install the required node dependencies, then `bower install` to install the required bower dependencies. Bower is being used to pull in Normalize.css and the Chai testing framwork (more to come on both).

Once your dependencies are installed, you can run `gulp serve` to run a local copy of the site on `localhost:9000` or `gulp` to build a static version in the `dist` folder. For conveince, the contents of the static build are hosted at <http://scottblock.com/brave/>.

## Why Gulp?
With Gulp, local builds are fast and livereload is supported, which speeds up development. Adding support for Sass was simple, and using a different css preprocessor, or a JavaScript transpiler such as babel would also be easy. Babel was skipped for this project to ensure everything would work in older versions of IE.

The Gulpfile created by Yeoman has to be only slightly modified. There's pieces of it that I am not yet using, such as a test suite and production build tasks. It's good to know that if I were to extend this project, or one like it, Yeoman has me setup well.

## Macro CSS
Sass is used to preprocess the CSS on this project. The main features used are variables and mixins.

The main CSS file is located in `app/styles/main.scss`. The rest of the partials in `app/styles/*/` are imported into `main.scss`.

The CSS is generally divided into:

- Settings
  - Variables
  - Mixins
- Normalization
  - Nicholas Gallagher's lightweight [Normalize.css](https://github.com/necolas/normalize.css/) is used to make elements consistent accross browsers, but not over-ride too many other styles. It's lightweightness is a huge feature.
  - `border-box` box-sizing is set on every element. There is one instance where we over-ride this back to `content-box` to make border behavior better on an input box, but by and large, `border-box` is an easier box model to work with.  
- Utilities- small reusable classes
- Base styles- styles applied directly to HTML elements
- Components- independent blocks that could be used in different places of a larger project

This organization is a simplification of Harry Robert's excellent [Itcss](https://www.xfive.co/blog/itcss-scalable-maintainable-css-architecture/), that I've found well suited for smaller projects. Harry's idea of [CSS Specificity](http://csswizardry.com/2014/10/the-specificity-graph/) is also aimed to be generally followed.

## Micro CSS
Basic [BEM](http://getbem.com/introduction/) naming conventions are followed, with the addition of utility classes that being with `u-`. Using a well documented standard like BEM allows a team of developers to read each others code easily and safely modify it.

Font sizes and margins are done in pixels instead of EM or REM units. This was specified for mobile, so desktop zoom concerns are nil. Pixels are easy to work with, and come with none of the cascading problems of EM. Input elements are set to specifically 16px to prevent zooming in on input in Mobile Safari.

## Typography
The project is served in Roboto Condensed from Google Fonts. I am pulling the base weight (and no other variants- for maximum performance as none other were specified in the mockup) directly from Google, and falling back to the user's `sans-serif` font if it does not load for whatever reason. The project's font is defined as `$body-font` in `app/styles/settings/_variables.scss`.

## Images
There are not a lot of graphics in this projects, but the two that do exist are separate SVG files, loaded as the `background-image` of an element. To save an http request, these should be combined into a sprite down the road. 

## JavaScript
The project's JavaScript is located at `app/scripts`. The main file (`main.js`) calls appropriate functions once the page is loaded. `app/scripts/utilities/base.js` has a small collection of helper functions that are used in `app/scripts/lib/*`. `apps/script/lib` has a file for each of the big interactive parts of the project: the form (`form.js`) and the menu (`menu.js`).

The gulpfile loads the utilities first, then lib files, and finally `main.js`. Anything used by the lib files are put in the utilities folder, and `main.js` only calls functions defined in the lib files. Eschewing es6 modules or a different JavaScript module standard in favor of this straightforward approach keeps the build process simple, and ensures no new features of JavaScript creep into older browsers. For a project of this size, I thought this was most appropriate, but exportable JavaScript modules certainly have their merit.

## TODO

- Make the error alerts fade away like in the reference sprite. It currently just slides back up, the way it slides down
- Write a test suite- mocha and chai are already included, and the gulpfile has test functions ready to go
- Replace the SVG files with 1 SVG sprite for better peformance- <https://github.com/jkphl/gulp-svg-sprite> should come in handy